---
layout: post
title: "New Apple Patent Shows iPhone 6 Dispensing Ice Cream"
hn: http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2246872
---

No, fuck that. This has got to stop.

Over the weekend there was another story about an Apple patent: [Apple 'Safe
Deposit Box' Patent Revealed Ahead of Mac OS X
Lion](http://www.macrumors.com/2011/02/19/apple-safe-deposit-box-patent-revealed-ahead-of-mac-os-x-lion).
It's some patent about distributed file access encryption mumbo jumbo. A story
about a new Apple patent comes out every day or two. Rumor sites love writing
about it because it's concrete information coming from Apple, and they usually
detail some far-flung product idea that everyone wants.

Who cares.

Companies patent stuff. In fact, companies patent a lot of stuff. Some patents
are half-baked, some patents are very real product ideas. But this religious
devotion to Apple's patents has got to stop. Everything gets written about.
There's entire sites devoted just to Apple patents. Endless discussion.

For a company whose devotees so proudly proclaim that Apple always ships real
product rather than peddle vaporware, the amount of significance placed on
patents is baffling. These are possible ideas, possible approaches. Nothing is
concrete, and even if the general idea is interesting, Apple will certainly
change the UI, physical design, or ultimate approach to the solution.

A lot of what Apple does isn't rocket science. Apple is past the point of
bringing something truly novel to market: they're not adding data streams piped
directly into your nervous system, for example. They're at a scale where they
can't really bet the company on super-futuristic technology. Even iPhone and
iPad were relative straightfoward extensions of OS X and the Mac lines.

What makes Apple novel is their approach to the mundane: how their UI is
simplified, how their engineering processes are refined, how their operations
and business deals are arranged. And that makes patents fairly valueless.
Everyone knows they'll have a cloud-based streaming solution at some point;
come up with the most boring, straightforward approach and you're probably
pretty close to what they'll ultimately ship in the future. What will
distinguish Apple will not come from anything detailed in a patent; it will
come from the approach they take to those ideas.

In 2004 or so, there was a patent for Apple to embed hundreds of iSight camera
lenses in-between pixels in a Cinema Display, so you could look directly at the
screen and your face would be better oriented for conversation. That shit ain't
here. The "Safe Deposit Box" patent from the weekend was appearing in patents
at least from 2005 and possibly earlier; that shit ain't here. For the last
decade Apple has apparently been on the precipice of delivering a flat-screen
internet TV. That shit ain't here.

All of these things may be coming, but at some point we need to realize that
applying straightforward logic to Apple may derive better predictions than
speculating on patents.
